date:: [[Mar 15th, 2016]]
publisher:: Wiley
extra:: DOI: 10.1002/cphy.c150038
isbn:: 978-0-470-65071-4
title:: @Hemodynamics
book-title:: Comprehensive Physiology
pages:: 975-1003
item-type:: [[bookSection]]
access-date:: 2022-02-23T08:36:28Z
original-title:: Hemodynamics
language:: en
url:: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cphy.c150038
edition:: 1
authors:: [[Timothy W. Secomb]]
library-catalog:: DOI.org (Crossref)
links:: [Local library](zotero://select/groups/4605909/items/JFUJEWVN), [Web library](https://www.zotero.org/groups/4605909/items/JFUJEWVN)

- [[Abstract]]
	- A review is presented of the physical principles governing the distribution of blood ﬂow and blood pressure in the vascular system. The main factors involved are the pulsatile driving pressure generated by the heart, the ﬂow characteristics of blood, and the geometric structure and mechanical properties of the vessels. The relationship between driving pressure and ﬂow in a given vessel can be understood by considering the viscous and inertial forces acting on the blood. Depending on the vessel diameter and other physical parameters, a wide variety of ﬂow phenomena can occur. In large arteries, the propagation of the pressure pulse depends on the elastic properties of the artery walls. In the microcirculation, the fact that blood is a suspension of cells strongly inﬂuences its ﬂow properties and leads to a nonuniform distribution of hematocrit among microvessels. The forces acting on vessel walls include shear stress resulting from blood ﬂow and circumferential stress resulting from blood pressure. Biological responses to these forces are important in the control of blood ﬂow and the structural remodeling of vessels, and also play a role in major disease processes including hypertension and atherosclerosis. Consideration of hemodynamics is essential for a comprehensive understanding of the functioning of the circulatory system. © 2016 American Physiological Society. Compr Physiol 6:975-1003, 2016.
- [[Attachments]]
	- [2016_Secomb_Hemodynamics.pdf](zotero://select/groups/4605909/items/MP6WUT6N) {{zotero-imported-file MP6WUT6N, "2016_Secomb_Hemodynamics.pdf"}}